---
title: Using Hakyll with Github
author: Arvind Devarajan
---
# Premise
Using github pages for blogs gives an interesting perspective: not only is that collaborative in nature (but not the only way), but also that it allows keeping your documentation / wiki along with your source code.

And, this is what that makes github pages different from, lets say, wiki: with sufficiently developed tools (for example, integrating document generating tools such as [doxygen][3], [sandcastle][4], etc.), there is also a possibility to use your blog as an upto-date synced documentation of your source code. This is possible because the blog is a part of your repo, and source-code documentation can be generated, say, during your continuous integration builds itself!

What more, we have [Hakyll][5], that supports writing blogs in markdown, and then converting that to HTML pages. So: Hakyll + Github = master-blaster!

How do we get Hakyll play well together with github?

The best place to start from is of course [here][2] - there is only a slight addition here. But here I try to consolidate all aspects of installing and using Hakyll with github.

# So, what is different in this article?
Well, this is something that worked for me. And the only change I did was to not to follow [the above][2] article in its entirety - and just replaced the `stack new myblog hakyll-template` with the instructions in the installation.

I did this, because stack was pulling down the nightly build with the template way. I decided to use the native hakyll way for initing the hakyll site: using `hakyll-init my-site`, and then initialse git for use with github-pages. 

# The basic idea
The basic idea of how you would maintain your site is by having two branches: one called "develop", where you will have your markdown files for posts (and of course, the other Hakyll files and your build-output html files). Your master branch does not need your markdown files, and will only contain the posts in html form - which is what github pages require.

# Installation
Installation instructions are [here][1], and they worked perfectly for me. So I just repeat the steps here to keep this complete (I just changed the "my-site" to "higblog" - but this does not make a difference for you if you want to keep it as "my-site"):

    $ stack install hakyll    # Install hakyll
    $ hakyll-init higblog     # Build example site, creates also site.hs that holds configuration of the site
    $ cd higblog
    $ stack init              # Creates stack.yaml file based on higblog.cabal
    $ stack build             # Build the site 
    $ # Dont build the posts yet...

# Integrating with Github pages
I don't repeat everything that is mentioned [here][2]. I cannot do a better job than that.

Just follow all instructions here, until actually creating a stack project in the local-setup using ```stack new```. You do not need this step, because, as a part of the installation above, you have already created a site.

Then, create a .gitignore file as follows:

```
# Created by https://www.gitignore.io/api/haskell

### Haskell ###
dist
cabal-dev
*.o
*.hi
*.chi
*.chs.h
*.dyn_o
*.dyn_hi
.hpc
.hsenv
.cabal-sandbox/
cabal.sandbox.config
*.prof
*.aux
*.hp
.vscode/
.stack-work/
_cache/
_site/
```

Finally, initialise git and add the files to your local git repository:

```
git init
# create new branch called develop and switch to it.
git checkout -b develop
# track all the source files for our blog.
git add .
# make our first commit
git commit -m "initial commit."
# and add the GitHub repository as a remote.
git remote add origin <URL to your GitHub pages repository>
```

Deploying your site github, again, modified from [the same place][2] to fit this workflow. Before deploying, make sure we are in the `develop` branch. If not, do this to get there:
```
# Temporarily store uncommited changes
git stash

# Verify correct branch
git checkout develop
```
If you are already in the `develop` branch, commit your changes, and build the site:

```
git add -A
git commit -m <commit message>

# Build new files
stack exec site clean
stack exec site build

# Get all files from github
# This step is important to make sure that we get merge conflicts that we can resolve
# before we push our changes back to github.
git fetch --all

# Create a master branch for pushing
git checkout -b master

# Overwrite existing files with new files
cp -a _site/. .

# Commit
git add -A
git commit -m "Publish"

# Push changes to github
git push -u origin master

# Restoration
git checkout develop
git branch -D master
git stash pop
```

Enjoy Hakyll with GitHub!

# Bonus: Hakyll with equations :-)
Here's the simplest of all:

In the seventeenth century, Fermat conjectured that if $n>2$, then
there are no integers $x$, $y$, $z$ for which:
***$$ x^n+y^n=z^n $$***

This was proved in 1994 by Andrew Wiles.

The sequence $(x_n)$ defined by:
***$$
x_1=1,\quad x_2=1,\quad x_n=x_{n-1}+x_{n-2}\;\;(n>2)
$$***

is called the Fibonacci sequence.

[1]: https://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/tutorials/01-installation.html "Installation"
[2]: https://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/tutorials/github-pages-tutorial.html "Github pages"
[3]: http://www.doxygen.nl/ "Doxygen"
[4]: https://github.com/EWSoftware/SHFB "Sandcastle"
[5]: https://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/ "Hakyll"